---
title: 5 Appliance Safety Tips What You Need to Know
description: "Keep your kitchen running safely and smoothly with these 5 essential appliance safety tips Learn all you need to know about keeping you and your family safe in the kitchen"
keywords: appliance
tags: ["Appliance Guide"]
author: Curtis
categories: ["Household Appliances"]
cover: 
 image: /img/applianceguide/194.webp
 alt: 'What are the 5 appliance safety tips'
---
## Keeping your Home Safe with Appliances

Keeping your home and family safe is essential and it's important to ensure your appliances are running properly. To help you with this, here are five appliance safety tips to keep in mind.

### 1. Check for Proper Installation

The first step to appliance safety is to make sure your appliances are installed correctly by a qualified professional. That includes both the appliance itself and any ancillary components it needs to function, such as power cords or outlet boxes. Make sure to read any product instructions before attempting to install or use the appliance.

### 2. Check Appliance Labels

Be sure to read appliance labels for the manufacturer’s safety instructions and product ratings. Most labels will list electrical ratings, how often the appliance should be inspected and any safety hazards. All information should be followed to ensure your safety.

### 3. Regular Inspections 

Regularly inspect appliances to ensure they're functioning properly. From checking wiring insulation to inspecting door seals, you can take simple steps to maintain your appliances. If you notice anything unusual during your inspections, it's best to reach out to a qualified professional for assistance. 

### 4. Maintain Proper Distance

Keep appropriate distances between appliances and items that could be affected by heat, such as curtains and furniture. Heat generated by appliances can cause these items to catch fire if they're too close.

### 5. Unplug Appliances When Not in Use

Always unplug any appliance when it's not in use as it can draw power from the circuit even when it’s not receiving a signal. This will help to save electricity and can also help prevent a potential fire hazard. 

By following these five appliance safety tips, you can better protect you and your family from the potential safety hazards appliances can cause. For help selecting the best appliance for your home, take a look at our [Overview of Top Appliances](./pages/appliance-overview).
