---
title: 5 Common Networking Error Codes What You Need to Know
description: "Are you troubleshooting a network problem Discover the 5 most common network errors and learn how to quickly diagnose and resolve them Get helpful information on understanding error codes and fixing your network"
keywords: error
tags: ["Appliance Repair"]
author: Curtis
categories: ["Household Appliances"]
cover: 
 image: /img/appliancerepair/66.webp
 alt: 'What are 5 common networking error codes feature image'
---
## Learn the Meanings Behind Common Networking Error Codes
When it comes to network errors with household appliances, it can be bewildering. However, understanding the five most common codes is a great place to start to feeling more informed. Here is an overview of their causes, what they mean, and what you need to know.

### Error 404
Error 404, also referred to as a ‘not found’ error code, is one of the more common error codes. This code usually appears when the page you’re trying to access no longer exists or there is a miscommunication from the server trying to receive the request from your internet browser.

### Error 403
Error 403 is another common code that appears as a 'Forbidden' error. This code is generated by the server when there is a problem with the permission settings. This error may also appear if your login credentials to access the page have expired.

### Error 500
The Error 500, or 'Internal Server Error' code is often generated when something on the server goes wrong. When you receive this code, it usually means that something is wrong with the server itself and should be addressed by the website administrator.

### Error 502
The 'Bad Gateway' error code, which appears as a 502 error code, is generated when the server is receiving invalid responses from another server. This is often caused by the server being overloaded or there being a problem with the network connection.

### Error 408
The 'Request Timeout' error code is generated when the server is waiting too long for the web browser to send a request. This can be caused by slow internet connections, a problem with your browser, or the web page may simply be taking a long time to view.

The five error codes above are the most common issues you will come across when browsing the web. Understanding what they mean is a great start to knowing how to tackle the problem when they arise. To find out more error codes and their meanings, be sure to check out our Comprehensive Appliance Error Codes Glossary.
