---

title: Dangers Of Hair Dryer While Pregnant
description: "Pregnancy is a delicate time for women and they should take extra care to ensure their safety. One of the things to consider is th...keep going and find out"
keywords: hair dryer
publishDate: 12/14/2022
tags: ["Washing Machine", "Dryer", "Hair Dryer", "Heat Pump", "Laundry Appliances"]
author: Curtis
categories: ["Household Appliances"]
cover: 
 image: /img/washingmachine/101.webp
 alt: 'recommended washing machine showing value for the user'

---

Pregnancy is a delicate time for women and they should take extra care to ensure their safety. One of the things to consider is the use of hair dryers during pregnancy. Although it may seem harmless, there are potential dangers associated with using a hair dryer while pregnant.

The main risk associated with using a hair dryer during pregnancy is that of overheating. Hair dryers can get very hot and if held too close to the body, can cause skin burns or other injuries. This risk is even greater for pregnant women as their skin may be more sensitive than normal due to hormone changes. Additionally, holding a hot object near your abdomen may raise your body temperature which could be dangerous for your baby’s development in utero. 

Another danger posed by using a hair dryer while pregnant has to do with its electromagnetic fields (EMFs). EMFs are generated by all electrical appliances and have been linked to an increased risk of miscarriage in some studies. While more research needs to be done on this topic before any firm conclusions can be made, it’s best to avoid unnecessary exposure when possible — particularly during pregnancy when you are taking extra precautions for your baby’s health and wellbeing. 

Finally, pregnant women should also consider the noise level when using a hair dryer during pregnancy as prolonged exposure or loud noises have been linked with hearing loss in infants after birth. To reduce this risk, opt for quieter models which emit lower levels of noise or keep the device at least two feet away from you when in use so that you don’t damage your ears over time from prolonged exposure at close range.. 

Overall, it’s important for pregnant women to use caution when handling any electrical appliances — including hairdryers — during their pregnancy as there are potential risks involved if used incorrectly or excessively exposed too often near the abdomen area.. Be sure to read up on any product before purchasing and follow all instructions carefully so that you can minimize any potential danger posed by these devices while still looking great!
