
solving-bosch-dishwasher-error-code-e09---an-easy-diy-guide
---
title: e09

Solving Bosch Dishwasher Error Code E09 - An Easy DIY Guide
description: "- This blog post provides a comprehensive overview of the Bosch Dishwasher error code E09 and offers helpful solutions to fix it With simple step-by-step instructions you can quickly identify and troubleshoot the issue"
keywords: bosch dishwasher
tags: ["Washing Machine", "Dishwasher", "Kitchen Appliances", "Clean Appliance", "Appliance Brand"]
author: Curtis
categories: ["Household Appliances"]
cover: 
 image: /img/washingmachine/309.webp
 alt: ''
---
## Solving Bosch Dishwasher Error Code E09

The Bosch dishwasher has become a mainstay appliance in many households around the world. But like all other appliances, it needs occasional maintenance. One such maintenance related issue that may crop up is Error Code E09. This error typically indicates a problem with the main control board or a faulty water inlet valve.

Fortunately, this issue is fairly straightforward and easy to fix. Most people can troubleshoot and fix error code E09 on their own. This guide provides step by step instructions on how to replace the main control board or the water inlet valve to resolve the issue and get your Bosch dishwasher up and running once again.

1. Disconnect the power cord from the electrical outlet.
2. Take out the bottom panel cover and locate the main control board and water inlet valve.
3. Use a multimeter to check for continuity between each pin that's connected to the main control board. Make sure all the pins are connected.
4. If any of the pins are not connected, replace the main control board.
5. If all the pins have continuity, inspect the water inlet valve. Make sure it is clean and free from any blockage.
6. If it is blocked, then clear the blockage and reinstall the valve.
7. Once you have verified that both the main control board and water inlet valve are working properly, reinstall the bottom panel cover and plug the power cord into the electrical outlet.

Your Bosch dishwasher should now be functional again. If you experience any other issues then a specialist should be consulted. 

If you find yourself needing to troubleshoot other household appliances, our [Comprehensive Appliance Error Codes Glossary](./error-codes/) can provide the necessary insights to help you diagnose and fix the problem.
