---

title: How Dryer Works In Washing Machine
description: "Are you wondering how a dryer works in a washing machine? Well, we’re here to break it down for you!...take a moment to check it out "
keywords: dryer washing machine
tags: ["Washing Machine", "Dryer", "Laundry Appliances", "Clean Appliance"]
author: Curtis
categories: ["Household Appliances"]
cover: 
 image: /img/washingmachine/282.webp
 alt: 'a households washing machine showing value for the user'

---

Are you wondering how a dryer works in a washing machine? Well, we’re here to break it down for you!

A dryer uses hot air to remove excess water from clothes after they have been washed and rinsed in the washing machine. The hot air is generated by heating elements inside the dryer, which can be powered either by natural gas or electricity. Once the air reaches a certain temperature, it is drawn into the drum of the dryer where it circulates around your clothes. As the air passes over your clothes, it absorbs moisture from them and carries it away from them. This causes your clothes to become drier as more moisture is removed from them. 

The moist air then travels through an exhaust vent that leads outside of your home, carrying all of that extra moisture with it. Once all of the moisture has been extracted from your clothes and exhausted outside, a cool-down cycle begins wherein cooler air is circulated through the drum to cool down any remaining hot spots inside and prevent shrinking or other fabric damage. 

Once all of these steps have been completed, your laundry will come out nearly completely dry! It’s important to remember that if your load isn’t completely dried when you take it out of the machine at first – don’t worry! Hang up wet clothing items on an indoor rack or outdoor line before transferring them into another load so they can finish drying off faster than inside a tumbler or spinning drum. 

We hope this helps clear up any confusion about how a dryer works in washing machines – happy drying!
