---

title: How Washer Dryer Works
description: "A washer dryer is a combination of two appliances: a washing machine and a clothes dryer. It is an efficient way to do laundry, as...read now to learn more"
keywords: dryer
tags: ["Washing Machine", "Dryer", "Laundry Appliances", "Clean Appliance"]
author: Curtis
categories: ["Household Appliances"]
cover: 
 image: /img/washingmachine/293.webp
 alt: 'the true washing machine used completely'

---

A washer dryer is a combination of two appliances: a washing machine and a clothes dryer. It is an efficient way to do laundry, as it combines two processes into one appliance. 

The first step of the process is washing. The washer dryer is filled with water and detergent, and the clothes are submerged in the mixture. The clothes are agitated in the mixture, which helps to remove dirt and stains from the fabric. This agitation is usually done by rotating drums or paddles inside the washer dryer. The water is then drained out, and the cycle repeats until all of the dirt and stains have been removed from the clothes.

Once the washing cycle has finished, it’s time for drying. The washer dryer uses hot air to dry the clothes. The hot air circulates around the drum, removing moisture from the fabric as it passes through. This hot air is usually generated by an electric heater or gas burner located inside the appliance. Once all of the moisture has been removed, the clothes are ready to be taken out of the washer dryer and put away!

Washer dryers make doing laundry much easier than having to use two separate machines for washing and drying. They are also more energy efficient than using two separate machines, as they use less electricity overall due to their combination design. Washer dryers come in a variety of sizes and styles, so you can find one that fits your laundry needs perfectly!
