---
title: The Surprising Amount of Copper Found in a Heat Pump How Much Copper is Really There
description: "Copper is an essential part of how heat pumps work but did you know just how much copper is really found inside This blog post digs deeper into the science behind heat pumps and reveals the surprisingly large amount of copper used in this household device"
keywords: heat pump
tags: ["Heat Pump"]
author: Curtis
categories: ["Household Appliances"]
cover: 
 image: /img/heatpump/131.webp
 alt: 'How much copper is in a heat pump'
---
## Uncovering the Amount of Copper in a Heat Pump

Are you curious about just how much copper is found in a heat pump? If so, you're not alone. As energy efficiency appliances become more common in households, it's important to gain an understanding of the composition of these machines. Read on to discover the surprising amount of copper found in most heat pumps and how that amount can affect its performance.

One of the most important parts of a heat pump is the coil. This is where the heat generated by the appliance is distributed, cooling the air or warming the room depending on the model. The coil is generally made of copper, which is both cost effective and a great thermal conductor, allowing the heat to transmit across the coil quickly.

Copper is also naturally resistant to corrosion and can withstand the elements and high temperatures meaning, it is an ideal material for the coil of a heat pump. In fact, most residential and commercial heat pumps typically have around 10-12 pounds of copper in them. That's a lot of copper, considering the entirety of a modern heat pump usually weighs in at about 70-90 pounds.

Of course, the amount of copper used can vary slightly depending on the type of heat pump, its design, and size. But generally speaking, the copper component of a heat pump makes up about 10-15% of the total weight. This is why it is essential to ensure the copper coil is serviced regularly, as it can have major impacts on the pump's energy efficiency, lifespan and overall performance.

When considering a new heat pump, it's important to take into account the amount of copper it uses, ensuring you get the best value for money in terms of energy usage, efficiency and life expectancy. To learn more about the heat pumps available, read the [Ocean Appliances overview](./pages/appliance-overview) to make an informed choice today.
