---
title: Troubleshooting Panasonic H39 Error Code - What to Do
description: "Having trouble with your Panasonic device Learn how to troubleshoot the H39 error code and what to do if you experience this issue Read this blog to get the answers you need"
keywords: panasonic error code
tags: ["Appliance Repair", "Appliance Brand"]
author: Curtis
categories: ["Household Appliances"]
cover: 
 image: /img/appliancerepair/227.webp
 alt: 'Panasonic H39 Error Code'
---
## Troubleshooting Panasonic H39 Error

If you own a Panasonic Viera Plasma TV and are having trouble with it, you may have encountered the H39 Error Code. Whether you need assistance getting the TV running again or understanding the underlying cause of the issue, this blog will provide the troubleshooting guidance need to help you diagnose and resolve the issue.

The H39 Error Code is an indication that the internal cooling fan is not working properly, as it is unable to push air through the TV and cool the TV down. It is important to identify the root cause of this issue to ensure that the TV becomes operational again. 

There are a few potential solutions depending on the source. The first is to check the fan blades for any blockages or objects that could be preventing the blades from spinning correctly. If you identify anything, remove the object and try turning the TV on again. If this does not work, then it is likely that the fan itself needs to be replaced in order for the TV to start running correctly. This can be done by opening the back panel of the TV and replacing the fan or consulting a technician. 

If checking the fan relative easy diagnostic steps do not restore the TV, a deeper issue could be causing the issue. Commonly this could either be a faulty circuit board or a damaged capacitor. Either can usually be identified and repaired by an electronic technician.

In general, the H39 Error Code usually occurs due to the internal cooling fan ceasing to work properly, either due to blockage or failure. Solutions to it can range in complexity and will generally require a technician or specialised equipment to identify and repair. 

If you are having trouble diagnosing and repairing the H39 Error Code, our [Comprehensive Appliance Error Codes Glossary](./error-codes/) can provide you with common error codes and their possible fixes. From here, you should be able to find a comprehensive list of error codes, their descriptions, and how to repair them.

## Troubleshooting Panasonic H39 Error Code

1. What is the Panasonic H39 Error Code? 

The Panasonic H39 Error Code is a diagnostic error code generated by your Panasonic TV's diagnostic system when it detects an issue with the TV's operation.

2. What are some typical causes of the Panasonic H39 Error Code?

The Panasonic H39 Error Code is typically caused by a firmware issue, an outdated software version, or a hardware malfunction. 

3. How can I troubleshoot the Panasonic H39 Error Code?

In order to troubleshoot the Panasonic H39 Error Code, you can attempt to update your Panasonic TV's firmware, if necessary. Additionally, you can attempt to reset the settings of your Panasonic TV, as well as perform a factory reset if necessary.

4. How can I update my Panasonic TV firmware?

You can update your Panasonic TV firmware by connecting the TV to the internet, then opening the TV's settings menu and navigating to the 'About' settings tab. Once there, the TV should be able to detect the available firmware updates and download them. 

5. What should I do if I continue to get the Panasonic H39 Error Code?

If you continue to get the Panasonic H39 Error Code, you may need to contact a Panasonic service center in order to diagnose the issue further.

## Panasonic H39 Error Code: Key Takeaways
1. The H39 Error Code typically occurs due to the internal cooling fan ceasing to work properly. 
2. Check for any blockages or objects that could be preventing the fan blades from spinning correctly. 
3. If the fan itself needs to be replaced, the back panel of the TV needs to be opened and the fan replaced. 
4. A faulty circuit board or damaged capacitor may be the underlying cause and should be diagnosed by an electronic technician. 
5. Refer to our [Comprehensive Appliance Error Codes Glossary](./error-codes/) for more common error codes and their possible fixes.
