---

title: Washing Machine Sounds Like A Jet
description: This post explains why many people complain about their washing machines making loud, jet engine-like noises and provides tips on how to reduce the noise, so if you're dealing with a noisy washing machine, read on to find out how to fix it.
keywords: washing machine
publishDate: 7/18/2022
tags: ["Washing Machine", "Appliances"]
author: Curtis
categories: ["Appliances Christchurch"]
cover: 
 image: /img/washingmachine/11.webp
 alt: 'noisy washing machine that makes jet noises'

---

# Washing machine sounds like a jet engine

Do you ever feel like your washing machine is making too much noise? If it sounds like a jet engine when it's running, you're not alone. Many people report that their washers make loud, jet engine-like noises that can be quite disturbing.

In most cases, a washing machine making jet engine-like noises is a sign that something is not quite right with it. It could be that the appliance is malfunctioning, or that its components need maintenance. It's important to get to the bottom of the issue quickly, as the noise can be very bothersome and even cause structural damage over time.

The most common cause of jet engine-like noises from washing machines is a bearing issue. Bearings are responsible for supporting the spin basket and allowing it to rotate freely. If a bearing is damaged or worn out, it can lead to an increased amount of friction, which in turn causes the spin basket to vibrate, resulting in a very loud, jet engine-like noise.

In some cases, a loose belt can also create jet engine-like noises. A belt is responsible for transferring power from the motor to the drum, which helps circulate the water during the washing cycle. A loose belt may cause abnormal vibrations, which can lead to unpleasant sounds.

In order to reduce the noise generated by your washing machine, it's important to identify and fix the underlying issue as soon as possible. If you suspect that a bearing is causing the problem, you'll need to check the bearings and replace them if they are worn out or damaged. Similarly, if you think that a loose pump belt is the source of the noise, you'll need to inspect the pump belt and tighten or replace it if necessary.

It's also important to regularly maintain your washing machine to prevent any malfunctions and ensure that it runs correctly. This includes checking for any loose parts, checking the hoses for blockages, and cleaning the filter, among other things.

With the right care and maintenance, you can help keep your washing machine running smoothly and reduce jet engine-like noises. If you're ever in doubt, however, it's best to seek professional help to get to the root of the issue.