---
title: What is E2 Error The Panasonic Washing Machine Explained
description: "E2 error messages can be a common sight on Panasonic washing machines but what does it mean Find out in this blog post about the Panasonic Washing Machine and E2 error codes"
keywords: panasonic washing machine
tags: ["Washing Machine", "Laundry Appliances", "Clean Appliance", "Appliance Brand"]
author: Curtis
categories: ["Household Appliances"]
cover: 
 image: /img/washingmachine/329.webp
 alt: 'What is E2 error in Panasonic washing machine'
---
## Understanding E2 Error in Panasonic Washing Machines
When it comes to household cleaning appliances, having a reliable washing machine is a must. Unfortunately, like any piece of machinery, it can suffer from occasional technical issues such as E2 error. Learning what this code means and how to fix it can save time and money.

E2 is an error code generated by Panasonic washing machines, indicating a motor issue. It typically appears when the motor cannot be used normally or the motor control is not working properly. Usually when this error appears, the washer will pause or stop the current cycle but still be in standby mode.

The Panasonic E2 error code can appear for a number of reasons. These range from clogged pipes to a faulty motor, or a switchboard board issue. In many cases, the issue can be quickly repaired by resetting the washing machine. First, make sure the power is switched off and then unplug the appliance. Wait for at least 10 seconds, then plug it back in and switch the power back on.

Often, resetting the washer will rectify the E2 error code, but it is best to get a professional to check it if the problem persists. If the error reappears, it is likely that a more complex repair is required.

It is important to be aware of this potential issue and any other code your washing machine might display to avoid costly repairs. For more information on appliance error codes and repair, our [Comprehensive Appliance Error Codes Glossary](./error-codes/) provides a helpful breakdown.
