---

title: What Insulation To Use For Pizza Oven
description: "If you’re looking to build a pizza oven, insulation is one of the most important components. Not only does insulation help keep th...get the full scoop"
keywords: use oven
publishDate: 2/11/2023
tags: ["Oven", "Appliance Consumption"]
author: Curtis
categories: ["Household Appliances"]
cover: 
 image: /img/oven/39.webp
 alt: 'a highly polished oven exploited'

---

If you’re looking to build a pizza oven, insulation is one of the most important components. Not only does insulation help keep the temperature inside your pizza oven consistent, but it also helps reduce heat loss and energy costs. 

When choosing insulation for your pizza oven, there are a few factors you should consider: temperature rating, thickness and material type. 

Temperature Rating: When selecting an insulator for your pizza oven, you’ll want to make sure it has a high temperature rating; typically somewhere between 1200-1400°F (649-760°C). This will ensure that your insulation can withstand the extreme temperatures generated by the fire in the oven. 

Thickness: The thickness of your insulator will be determined by how much thermal protection you need and how much space you have to work with. Generally speaking, thicker insulation provides better protection from heat loss than thinner ones do; however, if space is limited in your pizza oven build then thinner may be best. 

Material Type: There are several different types of materials used for insulating pizza ovens including clay bricks, ceramic fiber blankets and perlite/vermiculite mixtures. Clay bricks are great for providing long-term stability and increased fire protection due to their dense composition; however they can be difficult to install in tight spaces due to their size and weight. Ceramic fiber blankets offer good heat resistance while still being flexible enough to fit into tight spaces; however they can break down over time due to high temperatures inside the oven. Perlite/vermiculite mixtures provide excellent thermal protection while also being lightweight enough for easy installation; however they may not last as long as other materials due to their soft composition. 

Ultimately, when choosing an insulation material for your pizza oven build it’s important that you take into account all of these factors before making a final decision on what type of material would be best suited for your particular build needs!
